Cameron L Palmer	             		2806 High Plateau Dr
									Garland TX, 75044
									cameron.palmer@gmail.com
									972.375.1441

Education	University of North Texas, Denton, TX
Expected Graduation May 2007
Bachelors of Science in Computer Science 
GPA 4.0

Work Experience	UNT College of Engineering
September 2006 to Present
Research Assistant 
I support research in the field of compilers, hybrid architectures, and scheduled dataflow designs. I set up subversion as version control on our compiler code, and provide day-to-day technical support for the graduate students and professors working on the project.
	
IBM
June 2006 to September 2006
Software Developer
The internship involves the development of Java based tools and pages for the Academic Initiative group within IBM. The Academic Initiative within IBM advocates the use of open-source and IBM tools within universities around the world.
	
UNT COBA Web Development
July 2005 to January 2006
Web Developer
Daily responsibilities included maintaining changes to the web site per faculty and staff within the College of Business. This job included development of new web facilities using PHP and HTML, as well as work with JavaScript and MySQL technologies.

	Seagate Technology, San Jose, CA
January 2000 to August 2004
Internet Firewall Engineer
Daily responsibilities included design, maintenance and implementation of core Internet services, including Checkpoint firewalls, Squid Proxy, VPN and DNS. I helped migrate Seagate to a default routing strategy, deployed Checkpoint firewalls. I used were Sun Microsystems Solaris, RedHat and Slackware Linux systems.
	Bank of America, Dallas, TX
May 1997 to January 2000
Information Security
Daily responsibilities included VPN technology, Checkpoint FW-1, Defender authentication systems, PGP encryption clients, and Cylink encryptors.  This job was heavily project-oriented and I consulted on Information Security technology to the internal businesses.

Extracurricular Interests	Silicon Valley Linux Users Group, San Jose, CA
Participated in regular monthly SVLUG (http://www.svlug.org/) meetings. Interesting people I had the opportunity of hearing included, PHP author, Sony Playstation 2 Linux Kit developers, and Python author.

	Critical Mass, Denton, TX and San Francisco, CA
Critical Mass is a monthly bike ride to raise bicycle awareness. I participate as a rider.

	San Francisco Bicycle Coalition, San Francisco, CA
Promotes the bicycle as everyday transportation. Volunteer for monthly envelope stuffing and occasional bike parking at SF Bike Coalition (http://www.sfbike.org/) events.

	Asterisk VoIP PBX
Setup an Asterisk (http://www.asterisk.org/) open source VoIP PBX using Cisco 7960 phones and Cisco ATA-186 analog phone adapters for my apartment. It included SIP based in house connections uplinked using the IAX protocol to Voiceglo.

	ReactOS
Windows clone open source project. I have done some C programming and perl scripting for this project. This project remains an ongoing interest.

